Objective:- Assignments will help trainees to understand the basics of unix command and how to explore and use it.


***DO NOT copy paste commands from internet, though you can take help of teh internet for the assignments below.
****Be Honest to yourself!


important command and option to learn unix commands:-
1. man <-- Command
	Example:-
		man ls

2. --help <-- Option
	Example:-
		ls --help

NOTE:- Always use "man" command before using any unix commands and read about it and its options and how to use it.

 
Assignments:-

1. List the contents of a directory and their attributes
   ls
	

2. Long list the content with file, directory ownership, permissions,sizes, etc...
   ls -l
	
3. Display the size of the file in human readable format
   ls -s ./fileName


4. Show all files and folders including hidden one
ls -a
	

5. list directories recursively
ls -lr
	

6. Sort the files by size with largest at the top
ls -last
	

7. Sort the files by last time modified displaying the newest first.
ls -lt
	

8. Diplay the location of a program/command, where it is installed.
 locate -b program_name

	
9. Which command is used to switch directory from one to another
cd

	
10. List all the environment variables set for the current shell environment
env
	

11. Did you notice something in the output of "env" command?
all variables show up in caps
	
12. Which command is used to print the text or any variables value in the Console/Terminal?
echo
	

13. Print the value of the env variable "PATH" on the console
echo $PATH

	
14. Is linux a case-sensitive operating system?
yes
	
15. Is, "Ls" same as "ls"?
no

16. Display your currently logged in user
whoami


17. how do you change the currrently logged in user to another user?
sudo
	

18. Which command is used to leave a shell environment that you are currently logged in to?
exit
	

19. How do you reboot the system?
sudo reboot	


20. How do you shutdown the system?
sudo powerof
			 

21. Display all the major running processes in the system
top
	

22. Understand the output of command used in above question of displaying processes, explain the meaning of each column and what data it displays?
cpu mem usage username etc


23. Display the name of the system kernel
uname -r
	

24. display the kernel release number
uname -a


25. display teh machine type of the current kernel
 arch 

	
26. Display the name of the operating system that the kernel is running on
uname -or

27. Display all info that uname command can show.
uname -a

28. Display the name of directory that you are currently pointing to
pwd
	

29. change the current directory to another directory that you have in your system.
cd dir
	

30. Go up one directory
cd ..

31. Return to last directory
cd -

32. change the current directory to home(logged in user's) directory
cd ~

33. How to check all the command used from the prompt (Command History)
history
	

34. In which file the history of commands are stored in?
bash_history

35. How many lines of history does the system keep and from where you can change it?
	

36. How can you modify bash's history behaviour
 revert-all-at-newline
	

37. Display all the commands entered so far, now, try to run a particular command from the history list without typing that command.
	history

NOTE:- TAB key is your friend when it comes to command completion and having long file and directory names autocompleted at the bash prompt for you. JUST BE LAZY AND USE TAB KEY FOR AUTO COMPLETION ;-)


38. What are the different types of shell and where are they used and how do we use them?
	bash,Tcsh,Ksh,Zsh,Fish 

39. What is the difference between login shell and non-login shell?
A login shell is the first process that executes under your user ID when you log in for an interactive session
A Non login shell is started by a program without a login. In this case, the program just passes the name of the shell executable.
	
40. How do we start login shell and non-login shell?
after a successful login Login shell starts and A Non login shell is started by a program without a login.

41. What happens when you start a login shell (which files are read and used and Why)?

42. What happens when you start a non-login shell (Which files are read and used and Why)?

39. What are Shell Configuration Files, why do we need it?

40. Explain the Order of file usage from the system/user's home directory when user logs in to the System.


41. What are Shell Variables, list major shell variables and what do they represent?
	
42. How we see all our env variables?
 printenv

43. How we see all env variables in alphabical order?
printenv | sort
 
44. What Format does the env var and its values are stored?
key value pair	

45. How do you create your own varible?
key=value

46. How do you start a new bash shell?
vi file.sh	

47. Difference between Local/Shell variables to Global Variable
local variable that is valid in the current (bash) shell only And Global are valid throught

48. Making a variable accessible from other the shell in the system.
export 

49. Show the real life use case of exporting a variable
	

50. Convert the above script file into a command, The file should run with "myappp" instead of "myapp.sh"

51. What is Globbing? Explain in depth with examples?

52. List all entries with extension ".sh"
ls -d *.sh

53. List all entries with numbers in it.
ls -d [0-9]*

54. List all entries that starts with a character and ends with a number
ls -d [a-z A-Z]*[0-9]

55. List all entries that name length more than 5 characters
ls -d ?????*

56. What is Quoting? and Why do we need it?

57. Write few(minimum 3) unique examples that shows, how a particular problem is solved using Quoting.

58. How do you find a particular files/directories based on a particular search criteria?
	HINT:- look for commands -> locate, find and whereis

59. Write major difference between locate, find and whereis?

60. How Globbing is different from locate, find and whereis?

61. Explain the Linux File System.

62. Explain absolute and Relative Paths

63. What are the different ways of creating a File in linux System? Write an example of each and the difference between them.
cat,touch,vi,etc

64. In how many ways we can delete the files from linux system? write an example of each and teh difference between them.
rm filename

65. Archiving files using linux command, write a command to archive set of files from linux commands.
 tar cf archive.tar file1 

66. Extract the archived files from the above step.
tar xf abc.tar





